---
revision_id: d95a0dec-c453-11ea-a955-0ed5dc6cd01b
revision_date: 1594567499
---

###Cherry Melomel

(by /u/StormBeforeDawn)

**Total Volume:** 5 gallons

**Style:** Sweet Still Melomel

**Carbonation:** None

**Target Original Gravity:** 1.138

**Target Final Gravity:** 1.020-1.030


**Ingredients**

Ingredient| Amount | Notes
---|---|---
Honey | 14 lbs | Use a good honey, see notes.
Tart Cherries | 15 lbs | Whole, with pits. See notes.
GoFerm PE | 12.5 g |
Fermaid O | 8.5 g |
Fermaid K | 9.5 g | 
DAP | 13.8 g | 
Pectic Enzyme | 2.5 tsp |
rc-212 or 71b | 10 g | [Rehydrate in the Go Ferm using 250 ml water at 110 F](http://www.scottlab.com/product-102.aspx)

**Method:**

1. In your primary bucket add the cherries and a bit of water. Macerate the cherries with a drill stir/paint mixer and add the pectic enzyme.

1. Rehydrate the yeast using the GoFerm PE.

1. While the yeast rehydrates mix the honey into the cherries and fill to 5 gallons with water.

1. Pitch yeast.

1. Aerate twice daily until the gravity reaches 1.100.

1. After 24 hours add the first 1/3rd of the nutrients, then the next at 48 hours, and the last at the 1/3rd sugar break, 1.100 SG. 

1. Ferment at 62-65° F.

1. Rack after 2 weeks, consider bentonite if there is excessive solids in suspension.

1. Fine or filter if desired. Otherwise, wait until it's very clear.

1. Allow at least 6 months of aging, but it's better in 12 months.

1. Serve at cellar temp.

**Additional Notes:**

You want the honey to be something that will provide a complimentary flavor to the cherry. Basswood or raspberry blossom are two great options if available, or a lighter spring wildflower.

Some spices may go very well with cherry. Cinnamon and vanilla are options, and a little hot pepper can really make some flavors pop out. With a little less honey in primary back sweetening with maple syrup or molasses are both options. 

Cherry pits contain a cyanide precursor in really small amounts, like all stone fruit. When you macerate the cherries you do not want to crush the pits with your drill stir, not that the tool is capable of doing so. Also, keep to the racking schedule to get the mead off the pits in 2 weeks. If you are able to de-pit the fruit yourself or are concerned about amygdalin extraction, 10 pounds of pitted tart cherries and reducing volume to 4.1 gallons is perfectly acceptable.