---
revision_id: e3864fda-c456-11ea-b310-0e515a83d971
revision_date: 1594568805
---

###Blackberry Orange Blossom Melomel

(by /u/StormBeforeDawn)

**Total Volume:** 5 gallons

**Style:** Sweet Still Melomel

**Carbonation:** None

**Target Original Gravity:** 1.128

**Target Final Gravity:** 1.010-1.020


**Ingredients**

Ingredient| Amount | Notes
---|---|---
Honey | 14 lbs | Orange Blossom
Blackberries | 20 lbs | Raspberries are a good substitute if needed
Oranges | 10 - 15 | Size dependant, less with bigger ones 
GoFerm PE | 12.5 g |
Fermaid O | 8.5 g |
Fermaid K | 9.5 g | 
DAP | 11.7 g | 
Pectic Enzyme | 2.5 tsp |
rc-212 or 71b | 10 g | [Rehydrate in the Go Ferm using 250 ml water at 110 F](http://www.scottlab.com/product-102.aspx)

**Method:**

1. In your primary bucket add the berries and a bit of water. Macerate the berries with a drill stir/paint mixer and add the pectic enzyme. You can use a brewers bag to contain the fruit to reduce losses

1. Rehydrate the yeast using the GoFerm PE.

1. While the yeast rehydrates mix the honey into the berries and fill to 5 gallons with water.

1. Zest and then juice all the oranges, discarding pith. Freeze the juice and put the zest in a brewers bag, freezing as well. Will use oranges in secondary.

1. Pitch yeast.

1. Aerate twice daily until the gravity reaches 1.100.

1. After 24 hours add the first 1/3rd of the nutrients, then the next at 48 hours, and the last at the 1/3rd sugar break, 1.100 SG. 

1. Ferment at 62-65° F.

1. After FG is hit, add in the frozen juice and zest. Adding this last preserves aroma the best.

1. Rack at up to two weeks after gravity stabilizes, consider bentonite if there is excessive solids in suspension.

1. Fine or filter if desired. Otherwise, wait until it's very clear.

1. Serve at cellar temp.

**Additional Notes:**

This one can be very tasty if you have the ability to force carbonate.