---
revision_id: a0386917-6032-11eb-a05f-0e0b8ef6de1d
revision_date: 1611705611
---

### Braggot

(by /u/StormBeforeDawn and /u/DarkoKun)

**Total Volume:** 5 gallons

**Style:** Spiced mead with hops and fruit, carbonated.

**Carbonation:** Carbonated

**Target Original Gravity:** 1.072

**Target Final Gravity:** 1.000 

**Ingredients**

Ingredient| Amount | Notes
---|---|---
Honey | 5 lbs | Wildflower is fine, many varietals may add to flavor. 
Malt | 5 lbs | Amber, many others work by preference.
Lemons | 7 | juice and zest only
Cranberry | 5 lbs | Treat with pectinase before use
Hops, Cascade| 2 oz |
Hops, Golding | 2 oz 
Goferm PE | 12.5 g |
Fermaid O | 8.5 g |
Fermaid K | 9.5 g | 
DAP | 4.2 g 
GV12 | 10 g |Ale yeast, Nottingham is a good substitute
**Method:**

1. Rehydrate the yeast using the GoFerm PE.

1. In brew kettle bring malt and 2 Gal water to boil. 

1. Add hops, boil for 20 minutes. Remove hops after boil. 

1. Add honey and chill in ice water bath, or with wort chiller if available. Stir vigorously to mix honey and aerate.

1. Rehydrate yeast in Goferm PE according to package directions. 

1. Pitch must once cooled adding water to final volume, following yeast pitch directions.

1. After 24 hours add the 1/3rd of the nutrients, then the next at 48 hours, and the last at the 1/3rd sugar break. 

1. Ferment at 62-65° F.

1. Stabilize and backsweeten as desired, or leave to ferment to FG.

1. After primary rack onto lemon juice, zest and cranberry treated with pectinase for 24 hours prior and let sit for at least 2 weeks.

1. Bulk age and carbonate with priming sugar if left dry or force carbonate sweet or dry after stabilization when braggot is ready. 

1. This braggot may take a while to be ready, tweaking for a lower ABV can allow for earlier consumption.

1. Serve chilled.

**Additional Notes:**

Play with hops varieties, malt type, fruit volume and CO2 levels to drastically change the brew! More reading on detailed process notes is available[ here](/process/process_summary).

Credit to /u/DarkoKun for his recipe.