---
revision_id: 1880cf9f-600b-11eb-9dca-0e7e9c2cff67
revision_date: 1611688633
---

### Rhodomel

(by /u/StormBeforeDawn)

**Total Volume:** 5 gallons

**Style:** Dry Rose Mead with Spices 

**Carbonation:** Still

**Target Original Gravity:** 1.093

**Target Final Gravity:** 1.000 - 1.012

**Ingredients**

Ingredient| Amount | Notes
---|---|---
Honey | 13 lbs | Wildflower 
Rose Petals | 1 lbs | Be careful about pesticides. Some roses are not meant for consumption.
Hops, Czech Saaz | 2 oz | Bag to allow easy removal from boil.
Ginger | .5 lbs | Grate, shred, cube, juice. All work, finer brings more flavor faster.
Cinnamon | 2 sticks | 
Oak| 2 Spirals | Med toast American oak. May use cube or chips at preference.
Fermaid O | 8.5 g |
Fermaid K | 9.0 g | 
Lavin 71B | 5 g (dry yeast package) | [Rehydrate in the Go Ferm using 290 ml water at 110 F](http://www.scottlab.com/product-102.aspx)

**Method:**

1. Rehydrate the yeast using the GoFerm PE.

1. In a pot or brew kettle heat rose and ginger and 1 gal water to 150F and hold for 2 hours. 

1. Drain into must, discard petals. 

1. In a separate pot boil 1/2 gal water. Add 1 lbs honey, 2 cinnamon sticks, and 1 oz hops. After 10 minutes add second oz hops, boiling 10 more minutes.

1. Remove hops and add to must.

1. Add remaining honey to must and fill to 5 gal. Stir vigorously to aerate and pitch yeast once cool enough for yeast to survive. 

1. After 24 hours add the 1/3rd of the nutrients, then the next at 48 hours, and the last at the 1/3rd sugar break.

1. Ferment at 62-65° F.

1. Stabilize and backsweeten as desired, or leave to ferment to FG. 

1. Rack off lees after 1 month and add oak spirals, aging on oak as desired. 

1. Bulk age or bottle and store for 12 months.

**Additional Notes:**

Also consider similar recipes with hibiscus. More reading on detailed process notes is available[ here](/process/process_summary). Consider dry hopping, adding more cinnamon, or ginger all in secondary to taste, after examining acid/sugar/tannin balance after some aging.